---
layout: home
title: Final Project
---

# Final Project

The final project will be a collection of extensive survey articles representing
the history and current state of the art of a number of important topics at the
confluence of distributed systems and programming langauges. At the conclusion
of the course, we'll publish this polished collection of articles online as
something of a book. I expect this book to get quite a bit of attention from the
international developer community on social media. So, please keep this in mind
throughout the course as you read/analyze/write! Your work may be used as by
developers as reference material for years to come, so be thorough!

Articles (or chapters) will correspond roughly to the weekly topics we cover
together in the course.

Students may collaborate with one another on these articles, however, each
student will take the responsibility of lead on one specific article/chapter.
The lead on a chapter is free to choose the direction and shape that their
article takes; that is, you are allowed to decide for yourself what is important
or relevant, and you're allowed to steer your topic in a direction that's a bit
different from the focus put on it in class, if you feel it's the right thing to
do!

The papers that we cover in class should be considered the tip of the iceberg --
keep in mind that you will be expected to read and include other papers in your
article/chapter. Remember, your final article/chapter is meant to serve as a
view of the important stepping stones throughout history on your topic, as well
as the current state of the art of your topic. This will typically require you
to read several more papers than those covered in class!


## Experimental Evaluations

While the focus of the final project is a high-quality, polished article
covering the state of the art of your topic, experimental
evaluations/implementations are welcome to be included as well. If you wish to
include some kind of implementation or experimental evaluation on your topic,
please discuss and clear your ideas with me by the appropriate deadline.


## Project Organization/Timeline

**Deadlines:**

- September 29th (or before): topics assigned/finalized
- October 13th: plans for final project experimental evalutions finalized

**1-on-1s**: You will be expected to meet with me roughly every 3 weeks to
discuss your progress. I expect you to begin devoting time to
reading/structuring/sketching ideas early on.

I will set aside a meeting block on Friday mornings. A sign up sheet will go
around during the September 15 class period for you to grab 3-4 meeting blocks
over the course of the semester.


## Project Repository

We will work in a group repository on the final book/collection of articles.
(Technology/platform we'll use still TBD, final answer from me on this due by
September 15th.)





